# Below is a list of Flutter team members' GitHub handles who are
# suggested reviewers for contributions to this repository.
#
# These names are just suggestions. It is fine to have your changes
# reviewed by someone else.

## app_dart APIs
app_dart/lib/src/request_handlers/check_flaky_builders.dart                 @keyonghan
app_dart/lib/src/request_handlers/create_branch.dart                        @CaseyHillers
app_dart/lib/src/request_handlers/dart_internal_subscription.dart           @drewroengoogle
app_dart/lib/src/request_handlers/file_flaky_issue_and_pr.dart              @keyonghan
app_dart/lib/src/request_handlers/flush_cache.dart                          @keyonghan
app_dart/lib/src/request_handlers/get_build_status.dart                     @keyonghan
app_dart/lib/src/request_handlers/get_build_status_badge.dart               @CaseyHillers
app_dart/lib/src/request_handlers/get_release_branches.dart                 @CaseyHillers
app_dart/lib/src/request_handlers/get_repos.dart                            @keyonghan
app_dart/lib/src/request_handlers/get_status.dart                           @keyonghan
app_dart/lib/src/request_handlers/get_green_commits.dart                    @XilaiZhang
app_dart/lib/src/request_handlers/github_rate_limit_status.dart             @keyonghan
app_dart/lib/src/request_handlers/github_webhook.dart                       @keyonghan
app_dart/lib/src/request_handlers/github/webhook_subscription.dart          @keyonghan
app_dart/lib/src/request_handlers/presubmit_luci_subscription.dart          @keyonghan
app_dart/lib/src/request_handlers/postsubmit_luci_subscription.dart         @keyonghan
app_dart/lib/src/request_handlers/push_build_status_to_github.dart          @keyonghan
app_dart/lib/src/request_handlers/push_gold_status_to_github.dart           @Piinks
app_dart/lib/src/request_handlers/reset_prod_task.dart                      @keyonghan
app_dart/lib/src/request_handlers/reset_try_task.dart                       @keyonghan
app_dart/lib/src/request_handlers/scheduler/batch_backfiller.dart           @keyonghan
app_dart/lib/src/request_handlers/scheduler/request_subscription.dart       @keyonghan
app_dart/lib/src/request_handlers/scheduler/vacuum_stale_tasks.dart         @keyonghan
app_dart/lib/src/request_handlers/update_existing_flaky_issues.dart         @keyonghan
app_dart/lib/src/request_handlers/update_task_status.dart                   @keyonghan
app_dart/lib/src/request_handlers/vacuum_github_commits.dart                @keyonghan

## apps
auto_submit                                                                 @ricardoamador
triage_bot                                                                  @Hixie

## cipd packages
cipd_packages/codesign/**                                                   @XilaiZhang
cipd_packages/device_doctor/**                                              @yusuf-goog
cipd_packages/doxygen/**                                                    @gspencergoog
cipd_packages/ruby/**                                                       @godofredoc

## gh_actions
gh_actions/third_party/no-response/**                                       @godofredoc
