CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

Want to contribute? Great! First, read this page (including the small print at
the end).

### Before you contribute

Before we can use your code, you must sign the
[Google Individual Contributor License Agreement](https://cla.developers.google.com/about/google-individual)
(CLA), which you can do online. The CLA is necessary mainly because you own the
copyright to your changes, even after your contribution becomes part of our
codebase, so we need your permission to use and distribute your code. We also
need to be sure of various other things—for instance that you'll tell us if you
know that your code infringes on other people's patents. You don't have to sign
the CLA until after you've submitted your code for review and a member has
approved it, but you must do it before we can put your code into our codebase.

Before you start working on a larger contribution, you should get in touch with
us first through the issue tracker with your idea so that we can help out and
possibly guide you. Coordinating up front makes it much easier to avoid
frustration later on.

### Code reviews

All submissions, including submissions by project members, require review.

### File headers

All files in the project must start with the following header.

    // Copyright (c) 2016, the Flutter project authors.  Please see the AUTHORS file
    // for details. All rights reserved. Use of this source code is governed by a
    // BSD-style license that can be found in the LICENSE file.

### The small print

Contributions made by corporations are covered by a different agreement than the
one above, the
[Software Grant and Corporate Contributor License Agreement](https://developers.google.com/open-source/cla/corporate).

Commit message:

Update contributing doc (#3348)
Add a couple of suggestions to the CONTRIBUTIONS doc to help everyone out.

*List which issues are fixed by this PR. You must list at least one issue.*

*If you had to change anything in the [flutter/tests] repo, include a link to the migration guide as per the [breaking change policy].*

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

Want to contribute? Great! First, read this page (including the small print at
the end).

### Before you contribute

Before we can use your code, you must sign the
[Google Individual Contributor License Agreement](https://cla.developers.google.com/about/google-individual)
(CLA), which you can do online. The CLA is necessary mainly because you own the
copyright to your changes, even after your contribution becomes part of our
codebase, so we need your permission to use and distribute your code. We also
need to be sure of various other things—for instance that you'll tell us if you
know that your code infringes on other people's patents. You don't have to sign
the CLA until after you've submitted your code for review and a member has
approved it, but you must do it before we can put your code into our codebase.

Before you start working on a larger contribution, you should get in touch with
us first through the issue tracker with your idea so that we can help out and
possibly guide you. Coordinating up front makes it much easier to avoid
frustration later on.

### Implementations

1. For existing functionality contributions, please loop corresponding CODEOWNERs in to make sure they know and can provide a review before a merge to avoid potential regressions.

2. For new functionality like an app, please add your application as a top level folder and yourself as the point of contact in the Cocoon CODEOWNERS file. One good example of an existing app is `autosubmit`. Feel free to open an infra bug for any design/support discussions, as we are willing to help out.

### Code reviews

All submissions, including submissions by project members, require review.

### File headers

All files in the project must start with the following header.

    // Copyright (c) 2016, the Flutter project authors.  Please see the AUTHORS file
    // for details. All rights reserved. Use of this source code is governed by a
    // BSD-style license that can be found in the LICENSE file.

### The small print

Contributions made by corporations are covered by a different agreement than the
one above, the
[Software Grant and Corporate Contributor License Agreement](https://developers.google.com/open-source/cla/corporate).
